ORLAYN 

1. Granjero Hewitt
half-elf, lo encontraran independientemente de que lado de Orlayn entre la party. interesado en sus propios asuntos y no quiere atraer atencion. si un PC intenta conectar con el como persona comun podria abrirse
	- Brana - esposa
	- alyn - hijo mas viejo 15
	- aly - hija enmedio 12
	- pyr - hijo menor 7

2. Rober el Guardaleyes (C)
half orc, perfectamente amigable con los PCs, amenos que esten indagando demasiado en sus asuntos. invita a los PCs a visitar la Rana Negra. los pone en orbita de Dalgliesh para oportunidad de envenenarlos. Hay 2 guardas con el, Donovan, half-elf y Homero, dwarf

3. Cuartel vacio
usada antes para los guardias de barcos viajeros, en tiempos donde habia mucho mas comercio en titan. actualmente vacio, podrian resguardarse o ser emboscados aqui
 
4. granja de lacteos
se ven o escuchan un par de vacas al acercarse. atendiendolas veran a Norris, dwarf, el lechero. tiene 5 hijas y esposa Nala, human. es un enano amable, los extraños son amables hasta demostrar lo contrario, los podria invitar adentro por te y queso. esta preocupado por lo que pasa en Orlayn pero no tiene explicaciones

5. Ovejero Galen, halfling
ven un letrero con unas navajas lana. varios pliegues de lana estan doblados al frente de la casa. el y sus esposa Ralla, halfling, son amiglables. saben que la gente esta actuando muy peculiarmente pero no conocen razon de porque. podrian invitar por unas copas de vino y advertir de la rana negra

6. Rana Negra
posada de malvados. la maneja el bartender Bertram, gnome, pero en realdidad es propiedad de Dalgliesh, half-elf, el teniente de El Camino en este pueblo. Dalgliesh y sus seguidores no son cultistas, no les lavaron el cerebro, pero usan las pociones que Misha les da para controlar a otros. Veneno en la comida y bebida en la Rana Negra. Aliados del culto. Bertram solo intentara envenenar PCs si uno o dos de ellos vienen a investigar. si vienen todos juntos los ignorara.

10. alcalde Lilian Ormund, human.
sospecha que su esposo esta muerto. el recibio mensaje de que algunos de los pueblerinos se dirigian al pantano. fue a investigar y no se ha sabido de el desde entonces, ahce 2 semanas. no confia en los PCs hasta que Traver, humano, su guardaespaldas confia en ellos. 

12. Vendedor general (C)
es un establecimiento bastante cuidado, limpio. hay una variedad de utensilios de comida e implementos de granja en el porche amplio. la puerta esta abierta con un letrero bien pintado de una olla, una hoz, un saco y una linterna cuelga sobre todo.
El esposo Rami, human, y la esposa Kula atienden a los clientes. los 3 hijos esperaran detras de una cortina que va hacia el patio de atras, apuntando ocn sus ballestas. si los visitantes son hostiles o muy curiosos, los hijos se mostraran exigiendo que se vayan. los podrian invitar a tomar vino si solo son 2 o menos PCs, que puede ser delicioso o estar envenedado. si preguntan de donde es de una bodega detras del Cerdo Impaciente

su casa esta detras del negocio, bastante descuidada, ventanas rotas. 

13. Granja arruinada (C)
una granja con plantas muertas, la casa sin puertas o ventanas, pedazos faltantes, sucio. viven 2 personas, padre, half-elf e hijo half-elf, la madre fue victima del dios reptil. 
ambos son groseros, no quieren hablar, diran estar muy ocupados con trabajo de granja

14. Carpintero (C) 
una tabla de madera con la forma de un serrucho cuelga frente esta estructura bien construida. la parte de enfrente no tiene pared, y adentro es el area fresca donde trabaja el carpintero. Mate, half orc. la esposa Bura, human, espia a traves de un pequeño agujero de la peurta de la casa. tiene una longsword cubierta en veneno de serpiente y atacara si el esposo esta en peligro. el carpintero tiene un compartimiento secreto en su recamara donde guarda su dinero.

15. Herreria (C) 
2 jovenes fuertes, human, half-orc echan aire usando fuelles, mietnras un half-orc alto y ancho pega con su martillo a un pedazo de metal que se convertira en una pala. 
herrero es agresivo, sus hijos pueden intentar detenerlo, amenos que los PCs sean claramente hostiles. madre, human, tambien es miembro del culto. aventara cubiertos si combate comienza

16. posada abandonada (C) Tarro Espumoso
no verdaderamente abandonada. hay puerta secreta en la parte de atras, que lleva a cuarto de atras, totalmente desordenado tras una pelea. una puerta quebrada colgando, ahcia sotano huele a humedo y podrido, puede que noten un olor de pantano en el aire. el sotano es un cuarto grande, con cajas de comida podrida y 3 barriles de vino(bueno). 2 puertas lelvan a un cuarto de frutas, todas podridas, y un cuarto de herramientas. en este segundo cuarto hay 3 trogloditas, escondidos esperando emboscarlos


17. granja decrepita y granero colapsado

Doors and shutters swing freely here. The whole
appearance is one of abandoned desolation. Weeds
choke the yard before the house.
Inside the house, searchers will find articles of clothing,
cooking utensils, and moldy scraps of food in closed cupboards. It is obvious that the residents left suddenly. There are
two bedrooms in the house, one with a double bed and the
other with two small beds. A family of four lived here until the
troglodytes and cult members dragged them off to the dungeon
of the reptile god nine months ago. The evil will of the naga was
unable to corrupt any of them, so shortly thereafter some of the
crocodiles ate very well...
The unfortunate farmer's treasure remains in a hollow beneath
the rear porch steps. Several leather sacks there contains 2 gp,
and 307 sp, as well as a jade statuette worth 200 gp.



18. granja y granero 
This farm looks moderately prosperous. The house and
barn are in good repair, although several flower gardens
that used to bloom in the yard have become choked with
weeds. A strapping youth is splitting wood in the yard
beside the house.

Cult members! This is the home of a woman and her three
grown sons. Her husband died
many years ago, but the four of them have managed the farm
quite well. They have been cult members for nearly a year, and
the men are quite active in recruiting new members; i.e. they
help the troglodytes subdue captives of the cult, and use the
farm cart to transport the prisoners beyond the boundaries of
Orlane. They have become very good at this, each performing
as a 1 st level thief as far as "to hit" rolls, strike from behind, and
moving silently. They have no other thiefly abilities.
If the mother's suspicions toward the party are aroused, she
will detail one or two of her sons to spy on the group and report
on its activities. She, in turn, will keep the clerics informed. All
of her possessions of any worth have been donated to the cult.

19. Granja de cerdos
The smell of this area identifies it as a hog farm. In
addition to swine, many chickens scratch about the yard,
while a rooster and several turkeys strut regally. A
teenage boy watches from the porch of the house.
If anyone approaches the house, the lad will run inside,
returning shortly with his father. This proud farmer (AC 10;
hp 6) has been disturbed by changes in his community, and
will send visitors on their way quickly. He will answer no
questions, and if a group persists in trespassing, he will display
a loaded crossbow that he has concealed on the porch,
ordering them off of his land. The son and wife will have hidden
in the house. The boy (hp 2) will have another crossbow aimed
out of a window, while his mother (hp 3) waits behind the door
with a poised spear.
The farmer has made a decent living—his savings of 35 pp and
328 sp is concealed in a wooden box in the chicken feed.


20. pequeña casa bien cuidada 
Aqui vive Vilma, human, una anciana viuda. muy debil e incapaz de caminar mas que algunos pies sin descanso. ha vivido aqui 50 años en la granja 24. lleva 8 viviendo en esta pequeña casa. ahce pequeñas labores de tejido o repara ropa de sus vecinos por unos cuantos cobres. vive del dinero que junto con sus esposo en la granja. 

sospecha del carpintero14, herrero15, granjeros 18 y 19, los clericos y sirvientes del templo21, y la granja mas grande23. 

21. iglesia de san isolde 
unica estructura de piedra en Orlayn, 
Cult members! The gates to the courtyard will be standing
open during the daylight hours, but will be shut and barred
with the setting of the sun. Vigorous pounding after dark will
usually (100% at sunset, -5% for each hour thereafter) bring a
servant to open them. If the characters enter, go to the Temple
Key that follows the KEY TO ORLANE. There is a special map
to this area also

22. This residence gives the impression that it has seen
much use and that its owners have had little time for
improving its appearance. A small infant is playing next
to the house, and several chickens and a huge rooster
poke about the yard.
Cult members! This family has recently been converted. The
group consists of a husband (hp 6), his wife, their adult
daughter, their son (hp 5), son-in-law (hp 4), and the younger
couple's small child. The farm is well run, though battered (it
has looked that way since long before the family's indoctrination into the cult). Large stores of barley, wheat, and corn
are in the barn. A small vineyard west of the house is lush with
ripe grapes. All of the persons here have been slightly numbed
by their recent experience with the naga, and will appear
distant and removed if talked to. They will be neither friendly
nor hostile, and questions may have to be repeated several
times before getting an answer.
Because of the confused state of the family, shrewd questions
might gain some useful information. The attention span of
these folks is too short for them to conduct any significant
conversation, however.

23. granja prospera 

Two small children play in the yard, but at the sight of the
party they immediately run for the house. This building
looks solidly constructed and has been recently
whitewashed. The barn is a clean structure, though not
painted, and several goats wander in a small corral. A
pen housing an immense pig is visible just south of the
barn

Allak, tiefling rojo, Marieke, tiefling azul y sus 3 hijos. han sido exsitosos, tienen trigo, avena y frijoles. 5 cabras y 1 cerdo. y 2 mulas
Although retired from actively seeking adventure, the couple is
proud and resolute in their determination to succeed, and are
determined to defend their home and family with every means
at their disposal. To this end, there is a secret closet in the
house that contains Alan's chainmail, shield, sword 
longbow, 40 arrows, and Marieke's plate mail, shield,
longsword, and spear

He will be aware that his neighbors
to the east (farm 22) mysteriously left their home one night and
were gone for ten days. Since he did not know the family very
well before this departure, he has not noticed any significant
change in their behavior.

24. This is a fairly well-built house that has had all of its
windows and doors boarded over securely. The barn
doors swing freely in any passing breeze.


25. Cerdo Impaciente
A large, colorful sign pictures a red dragon with its head
resting contentedly on its paws. A plume of smoke rises
from the serpent's nose and its eyes are closed. This inn
is smaller and olderthan theGoldenGrain. Severalbeds
of flowers brighten the front, however, and the large
middle-aged woman sweeping the porch looks cheerful.
She greets you with a friendly wave

This is Belba Cralloon. She and her husband Ollwin run this
inn. They possess the knack of making a weary traveler feel at
home. At any pause on the part of a group, she will bustle down
the porch steps and invite them inside.
If the party enters, use the additional description of the Inn of
the Slumbering Serpent following the KEY TO ORLANE. A
map of the inn will be found in the map section.


27* pequeña arboleda
The narrow trail winds among majestic elms, at times
disappearing into thick shrubbery. The bushes between
the trees are dense, rising to a height of eight or ten feet.
The elms themselves average 75' tall, and they are the
only trees here. They are widely spaced, allowing much
sunlight to pour between their ancient boughs.

The venerable hermit has a ramshackle cottage on the far side
of this small grove. The bent and graybearded resident is a
loner, and none of the village people have gotten to know him.
He is actually a 7th level magic-user named Ramne (M7; AC 8;
MV 6", due to age; hp 16; #AT 1 at -1 or spell; D 1d6-1; S 7, I 17,
W 16, D 9, C 7, Ch 13). He wears a ring of protection +2 and
bears a gnarled wooden staff with no magical properties.
Ramne has been living in this one room hut for over a decade,
and is quite comfortable here. He rarely leaves his grove, as his
legs are weak and he tires very easily.
Ramne has a familiar, a clever weasel named Whiskers (AC7,
hp 3). Whiskers has a powerful sense of smell and can trail the
troglodytes to their lair in the Rushmoors, even if the trail is
very old. Normally, Whiskers may be found


RANA NEGRA
breakfast 1 sp beer, pint 1 sp
breakfast, fancy 3 sp beer, pint, dark 2 sp
supper 4 sp wine, pint, watery white 2 sp
supper, fancy 1 ep wine, pint, watery red 2 sp
soup or stew, bowl 2 sp wine, Orlane Special, pint 1 gp


breakfast, fancy 2 sp
supper 2 sp
supper, fancy 8 sp
dinner, the works 1 gp
grapes, bunch 2 cp
soup, bowl 5 cp 

beer, pint 5 cp
beer, dark, pint 1 sp
malt, pint 2 sp
wine, white, pint 2 sp
wine, red, pint 2 sp

wine, Orlane Special, pint 1 gp
brandy, Keoish, gill 1 ep