ORQUIDEA

str +2
dex -1
con +1

40 ft x 15 ft 
3 miles per hour, 72 per day

HULL/CASCO

AC 13
HP 80 (minimo damauge 8, o no recibe damauge)

HELM/TIMON

AC 9
HP 40

90 degree turn, if destroyed, ship can't turn (unless...)

OARS/REMOS

AC 9
HP 80 
SPEED 20ft, -5 ft per 20 dmg taken

SAILS/VELAS

AC 9
HP 40
SPEED 25ft, 15ft into wind, 35ft with wind


LIGHT BALLISTA

AC 12
HP 40

+3 to hit, range 100/400 ft, hit 2d10 piercing



Mast 20 ft, 2 sails "triangle" shaped

4 10ft long oars 

front bow proa, back stren popa, left port babor, right starboard estribor

tiller caña de madera de la vela de atras
timon derecha, tiller caña izquierda

cubierta es el suelo

tiene 1 linterna por cubierta (2) que dan bright light

orilla del barco cuenta como half o 3/4 cover dependiendo del tamaño

Type: Vehicle (Water) Cost: 2000 gp Weight: --

If you have proficiency with a certain kind of vehicle (land or water), you can add your proficiency bonus to any check you make to control that kind of vehicle in difficult circumstances.

Keelboats and rowboats are used on lakes and rivers. If going downstream, add the speed of the current (typically 3 miles per hour) to the speed of the vehicle. These vehicles can’t be rowed against any significant current, but they can be pulled upstream by draft animals on the shores.


COMBAT

Critical hits on the ship

D10 Roll 	Effect
1 	Fire!
2 	Ship Shaken!
3 	Hull Holed!
4 	1d4 Speed loss for 1d6 tactical turns
5 	Random Ship Weapon Damaged
6 	Exterior crew Damage!
7 	Interior crew Damage!
8 	1d6 Maneuverability loss for 1d6 tactical turns
9 	Ship Shaken!
10 	Exterior crew Damage!


Fire!- A fire starts somewhere inside of or on the ship, determined by the DM.  If a fire is unable to start for some reason then roll again.

Ship Shaken- All crewman not otherwise secured (Helmsman is considered secured) must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone and dealt 2d6 falling damage.  On a critical failure a crewman on the outside of the ship or in an area with an open hull is thrown overboard.

Hull Holed- The attack punches a sizable hole in the ship. DM decides location unless targeted by a ramming maneuver.  If a Tiny ship suffers a Hull Holed Critical Hit it's internal structure is destroyed and the ship starts to break apart.  A ship can survive one Hull Holed Critical Hit per size category above Tiny before being torn apart.

Speed Loss- The ship loses the specified amount of speed for 1d6 Tactical Turns (min 1). If the ship is already at Speed 1, then any remaining balance should be subtracted from Maneuverability.

Random ship weapon damaged- A randomly chosen ship weapon (Siege or Spelltech) is damaged and inoperable until repaired. Duration of repair is 1d4 Tactical Turns and requires a proficient crew member to perform.  Any crew on the weapon is unharmed.  If no weapons exist on-board the ship, roll again.

Exterior crew Damage- One creature on the exterior of the ship is struck suffering either the same damage as the ship. Choose the target randomly from all exterior crew. All creatures within 5ft of that individual must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or suffer the same damage.  If a ship has no exterior crew then roll again.

Interior crew Damage- Same as an Exterior crew Damage Critical Hit, but everyone inside is a potential target, including prisoners and Helmsman. This is a result not of a direct weapon hit so much as shattered parts of the ship, shrapnel, and the bouncing around during combat.

Maneuverability Loss- The ship loses the specified amount of maneuverability for 1d6 Tactical Turns (min 0). If the ship is already at Maneuverability 0, then any remaining balance should be subtracted from Speed (min 1).







VELOCIDAD MAXIMA DE EMBARCACION
Speed unit x # de estaciones de tripulacion usadas
Si la mitad de las estaciones de navegacion estan ocupadas, pueden elegir amarrar las velas y velocidad por viento se convierte en 0, para desamarrarlas se ocupa la mitad de las estaciones ocupadas tambien


ACCIONES DE TRIPULACIÓN

Sail
- DC 10 STR, manejando las velas, remando, echando carbon a un motor. le da movimiento a la nave igua a su spd stat, en fallo le da la mitad.

Timon
- si no hay nadie en el timon la nave solo se puede mover hacia enfrente o incluso perder el control. no necesitan checks amenos que sea terreno dificl o una maniobra dificil STR o DEX y DC dependiendo de la situacion

Operar
- usar un objeto de la nave que no contriubya a la navegacion. lo mas comun es usar armas. 

Command
- coordinar la nave, DC 10 CHA y en exito se añade +2 a la iniciativa de la nave, no hay limite de commands en una ronda, stackean

* Repair
- no es crew action como tal, so es inmediata. parchar agujeros, atando cuerdas, arreglando valvulas, sacando agua de una cubierta. DC 10 de STR o INT dependiendo del jugador y de la accion. exito los deja tirar uno de los Hull Dice de la nave. si el daño fue a una parte de la nave con su propio HP, se puede usar el dado en esa parte. (timon, catapultas, mastil etc) 

ROLES DE TRIPULACIÓN
Te daran 2 funciones. Una en barco que sera bonus action, otra en general que puede ser una acción o bonus pasivo

CAPITÁN
Barco: Bonus action. Coordinando con primer oficial y timonel, decide el movimiento del barco. 
General: Action. Puedes ordenar a todo el grupo que hagan un melee attack si estan en rango, una vez por día. 

PRIMER OFICIAL
Barco: 
General: Puedes intercambiar el lugar en la iniciativa de 2 miembros del grupo en cada comabte

CONTRAMAESTRE
Barco:
General:

NAVEGADOR
Barco:
General:

TIMONEL
Barco:
General:

ARTILLERO
Barco:
General:

MEDICO
Barco:
General:

CARPINTERO
Barco:
General:

COCINERO
Barco:
General:

VIGIA
Barco:
General:

MAESTRO EN ARMAS
Barco:
General:




QUALITY SCORE, +4 TO START, RANGES FROM -10 TO +10

every day with QS at 0 or below, captain must make CHA check +- QS (persuasion or intimidation) 

>9, nothing happens
1-9, quality score -1
<0, mutiny